Final project report supporting structure
3.4.1 Title Page
Please use the template provided (see Appendix B).
3.4.2 Abstract
The abstract should be a statement up to half a page in length describing the subject matter of
the project report and the main findings and conclusions presented in the report. A reader
should be able to decide what the report is about by reading this alone.
3.4.3 Acknowledgements (if any)
3.4.4 Contents page
The table of contents must show the chapters of the report, with the title of each and the page
number on which each chapter begins. If your chapters are organised in sections, with a title
for each, show these sections on the contents page as well. Do not go to greater detail than
sections, as the table of contents should fit on a single page.
3.4.5 Chapter 1: Introduction to the project
This chapter should introduce the project. Say what the project was about, such as what are the
research questions you were attempting to address, give some brief background information
(sufficient to ‘set the scene’) and list the objectives you were trying to achieve by doing the
project. These should be based on what you said in your project plan, but they may have
changed since the plan was submitted; any changes should be explained later in the report,
probably in the overall evaluation of the work.
This chapter should also introduce the report. Give a very brief statement of how your report
is structured, including what is in each chapter (and the most important appendices), just to
help the reader gain an idea of how you have presented your work.
3.4.6 Collection of main chapters
How to present these will depend largely on the subject of the project, but here are a few points
of advice:
(a) You may assume that your readership has the level of knowledge of a good Masters’
student who has taken the same modules as you. Bear this in mind when writing about
background technical information and do not present large amounts of material that such a
reader would already know or that could be read in a standard textbook. Simply reference the
textbook in your bibliography and keep the information you present specific to your own work.
Explain how any background material you present has been used in your project.MSc Project Handbook
18
(b) The main chapters of your report are where you describe your achievements. Instead of
just listing the tasks that you carried out diary-style, in the order you did them, it is better to
organize the chapters around topics.
(c) In these chapters, you should tell the reader what you have done, why you did it, what
results you obtained, what you think you have achieved (including the problems you have
overcome), how you calculated the commercial risk for your project and how you managed it,
and how you went about evaluating your work (criteria applied, tests performed, and so on).
Be sure to present the results of your project work properly.
(d) It is important to present in the written report information about your work that will not be
conveyed at the demonstration. As an example, depending on the nature of your project and
the way you approached your work, this might include:
• Discussion of methods that were considered and the reasons for choosing one method
over another;
• Use of software tools (what inputs you supplied, how you configured them, what
outputs were produced);
• Presentation and discussion of intermediate results, for instance of a program which
was progressively refined or extended;
3.4.7 Chapter X: Discussion and evaluation chapter
The extent to which you demonstrate the ability to reflect upon your work is very important.
In this chapter, you should summarise your main findings/results and evaluate what you have
achieved and how you went about it. You may find it more convenient to include an evaluation
of your work in the chapters where it is presented and summarise that evaluation here. What is
crucial is to have a critical self-evaluation of the extent to which you have achieved the things
you set out to do. Assess the extent to which you met your objectives. You will not be penalised
for acknowledging that you failed to achieve everything you set out to do, and especially not
the more advanced things, but you certainly would be criticised if you gave the impression of
not having noticed that you had failed to meet an objective.
You should have a short section on management of the project (usually one to two pages),
including how you planned to allocate time at the start of the year and how it worked out in
practice. Additionally, you should demonstrate you have considered the commercial and
economic context of your project.
3.4.8 Bibliography and referencing
After the final chapter, and before any appendices, list any sources (books, journals, web pages
etc.) that you cite in your report. You should also list any sources that you have used, even if
not cited directly. Use the Harvard system for your in-text citations, and for your references,
producing one list, ordered by author surname (whether the material is drawn from books,
journals, forums or blogs, or is a piece of software). A guide to the Harvard referencing system
is provided at http://www.studynet.herts.ac.uk/ptl/common/LIS.nsf/lis/busharvardMSc Project Handbook
19
The University provides an online "Library SkillUP" tutorial on citing sources and
referencing that you should work through. It is available at
http://www.studynet.herts.ac.uk/ptl/common/LIS.nsf/lis/citing_menu
3.4.9 Appendices
The appendices to your report provide supporting evidence of the quality and quantity of the
work you have done. Your appendices should contain any specifications, design documents,
survey forms and results, screen shots, and other documentation produced as part of your
project. Without this supporting evidence, it is possible that the markers will take the view that
you have not done everything you claim to have done.
However, the appendices are only there to back up the claims made in your report. Markers
can only be expected to look at those parts of the appendices you draw their attention to in the
main body of the report. They are not obliged to read the appendices in detail, though they may
do so. If you think it is important to draw the markers' attention to a document, or a part of a
document, tell them where to find (don't just say "the code for this is in appendix 3", give a
page number, and/or other information that makes it clear how to find it; better still, include
the relevant fragment of the code in the body of your report).
Any program code written by you must be presented in the appendices. But do not include
code that is machine generated, or that comes from a different author, unless it is necessary for
the reader to understand the work you have done. If you do include code that you did not write
yourself, it is your responsibility to make clear which parts of the program are your own and
which parts are not. If you present automatically generated code, or the code of another
programmer, as if it were your own, you may be accused of plagiarism.
Do not include copies of any web pages that you have referred to, unless it is necessary for the
reader to see them to make your point: just put the citation details in your bibliography.
Samples of the work that is presented in the appendices may (and probably should) be included
in the body of your report to illuminate a point or for discussion purposes.