Assignment Tasks:

You should have done about 600 hours of effort by the time you submit your project report.  This assignment is worth 95% of the overall assessment for the module; the 300 hours of effort quoted relates primarily to the collation, writing and editing of the report and supporting documents, and the preparation and time were given to a demonstration and face to face discussion of your work with your assessors.

You should be aware from the outset that the report and your explanation of your work is the primary evidence used in the assessment, and it is the assessment of your abilities to conduct and deliver a project that is key.  Any software product or model or artefact that you may have produced during your project is not the main focus of the assessment.  In an extreme case, a student that submits a well-crafted piece of work, but fails to submit a report into how it was produced, will fail.  The project module is about assessing your abilities as a student in your discipline area.

As a guide, taken together, the report should be about 10,000 words in length.  The bibliography and appendices are not included in the word length.

You need to include your student ID number, name and your supervisor’s name on the first page of your report.

IMPORTANT: Please TYPE the following Declaration to your final report:

MSc Final Project DeclarationDownload MSc Final Project Declaration

You could change the format/layout to suit your report but please place it before the Contents page.

Demonstration

You must give a demonstration of your work to your supervisor and second marker and answer questions from them about your work.  This demonstration is part of the formal assessment process and counts 20% of your FPR mark.  It is your responsibility to agree on a time and date for this with your supervisor (and the 2nd marker), and to turn up on time (and be prepared) for your demonstration. It should normally take place AFTER your FPR submission, though some may be prepared to do this before the submission deadline.

Please check the MSc Project Handbook for guidance on how to structure your final project report and how to prepare for your demonstration.

Submission Requirements:

FPR Submission (to Canvas) deadline: Monday 28th August 2023 at 23:59 (UK local time)
Demonstration deadline: Wednesday 20th September 2023
When you are ready to submit your report, convert it (and any accompanying documents) into a single document file (suggested format: .docx, pdf or .odt) for FPR;
You need to submit your artefact as well. This can be in the appendix of your report or as another plain text document file for your code (if you don't wish to put them into the same document as the FPR).

Suggested file types for the submission:

Microsoft Word (.doc/.docx)
OpenOffice Text (.odt)
PDF (.pdf)
You must NOT submit your code as images or screenshots, all code should be submitted in plain text format.

You are free to send any program files, zipped files to your markers via emails but only the Canvas submission will be marked.

Marks will be deducted if you do not follow these simple instructions.

The Final Project Report (FPR) has online submission ONLY.

A live demonstration of your work is commencing after your FPR submission and by the demonstration deadline above.

Marks awarded for:

This assignment is worth 95% of the overall assessment for this module

100 marks in total are awarded in the categories below.

Specification of the project (5 marks)
Research (20 marks)
Methodology (20 marks)
Quality and Results (20 marks)
Evaluation and Conclusions (10 marks)
Presentation and References (5 marks)
Demonstration (20 marks)
The details of the distribution of marks in each category are listed in the Assessment Form
(see MSc Project Handbook).

Please also see details in the MSc Project Marking Schema (FPR) Download MSc Project Marking Schema (FPR).

Type of Feedback to be given for this assignment:

Feedback will be in the form of a final grade via Student Record (https://www.studentrecord.herts.ac.ukLinks to an external site.) AFTER the module board and comments from your markers.

Additional information:

Regulations governing assessment offences including Plagiarism and Collusion are available from https://www.herts.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0007/237625/AS14-Apx3-Academic-Misconduct.pdfLinks to an external site. (UPR AS14).
Guidance on avoiding plagiarism can be found here: https://herts.instructure.com/courses/61421/pages/referencing-avoiding-plagiarism?module_item_id=779436
All work (for example; questionnaires, interviews, and consulting etc) with human subjects (any human; including peers, family and friends etc) must obtain UH ethical clearance before the work commences.  Failure to gain clearance is  treated as academic misconduct and could lead to the failure of the project
For postgraduate modules:
a score of 50% or above represents a pass mark.
late submission of any item of coursework for each day or part thereof (or for hard copy submission only, working day or part thereof) for up to five days after the published deadline, coursework relating to modules at Level 7 submitted late (including deferred coursework, but with the exception of referred coursework), will have the numeric grade reduced by 10 grade points until or unless the numeric grade reaches or is 50. Where the numeric grade awarded for the assessment is less than 50, no lateness penalty will be applied.


FPR report presentation:
The report should be prepared as follows:
• Approximately 10,000 words in length
• The bibliography and appendices are not included in the word length.
• Do not use the cover sheet (So NO assignment briefing sheet).
• The same font should be used throughout. We would prefer you to use 12-point Times,
though any reasonable alternative (such as Arial) will be accepted, (except for
mathematical formulae, where you may use whichever font is most appropriate, and
program code examples, where you should use a non-proportional font such as
Courier).
• Lines should be single-spaced, with between 1/2 a line and a whole line of extra space
after each paragraph.
• Margins: at least 20 mm left and right; 25 mm top and bottom.
• Pages should be numbered in one continuous sequence.


Project Demonstration:
You must give a live demonstration of your work to your supervisor and second marker who
will ask questions about your work. This demonstration is part of the formal assessment process
and counts 20% of your final project mark. It is your responsibility to agree a time and date for
this with your supervisor (who would contact the 2nd marker on your behalf). It should
normally take place after both markers have assessed the report and you must arrive on time
and be well-prepared for your demonstration.
Please consider the following project demonstration guide:
1. All students are required to give a demonstration or other presentation of the work they
have produced for their project. You will have 10 minutes to show your work. If you
go on longer than 10 minutes you may be interrupted. Then there will be 10 minutes
for answering questions. The time is very short so you will need to plan and should
discuss how best to present your work with your project supervisor. Please do not
attempt to do a PowerPoint presentation telling us about what you did: you need
to show us the actual work. Suppose, for example, that the main deliverable from your
project consists of an extensive set of test results and analysis of those results. We
would not want to be told what you did, we would want you to present the actual results,
and talk us through them.MSc Project Handbook
16
2. The assessment will be carried out by your supervisor and the second marker for your
project, who will both attend your demonstration.
3. Subject to Covid rules, you may use one of the university computers (please make sure
the lab is going to be free at the arranged time for your presentation beforehand) or your
own laptop.
4. We cannot provide networking facilities for your laptop machine beyond what is
normally available in the area where your demonstration takes place. But in general, it
is perfectly acceptable to demonstrate a networking, client-server or web-based project
using the loopback address 127.0.0.1 (localhost). If one or two features (such as
automated email to another machine) cannot be demonstrated for sound technical
reasons that is unlikely to be a problem unless they are at the core of your system.
5. [NOTE - THIS IS SUBJECT TO VID REGULATIONS] If you need to use specialist
software that is not installed in the general laboratory area then you could consider to
approach Library and Computing Services Helpdesk about getting the software
installed on one of the UH machines. THIS NEEDS TO BE DONE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE. Please be aware, however, that we cannot permit the installation of
software for which neither we, nor you, have a valid license (if the software is being
installed under your license you will be asked to prove that you have one).
6. If you miss the demonstration this is like missing an examination. If there is a good
reason for missing the appointment for your demonstration, there may be an opportunity
to reschedule the demo, but if this happens you will need valid and documented serious
adverse circumstances (SAC) presented to the Board of Examiners in the usual way.